---
layout: page
title: Research
subtitle: UCDBG Research Interests
---


## Data Provenance
Provenance explains produced data over database operations such that which tuple (row) in the data generated by a query is derived from which tuple in the input data through which operation(s). Similarly, why-not provenance informs why and how tuples are missing in the produced data. [PUG (Provenance Unification through Graphs)](https://github.com/UCDBG/PUG) is a middleware system that efficiently captures provenance for a given data and query. PUG introduces a novel approach for computing unified why and why-not provenance. The technique used in PUG is the first practical method that computes explanations using samples of why-not provenance over real-world datasets and queries with negation. The system is (particularly) useful for understanding processed data, debugging data processing pipelines, and so on. In the following, research (including development) opportunities which add more power to PUG are listed.

### Efficient Sampling for Big Provenance 
Provenance has been studied extensively to explain existing and missing results for many applications while focusing on scalability and usability challenges. Recently, techniques that efficiently compute a compact representation of provenance have been introduced. In this work, we introduce a practical solution that computes a sample of provenance for existing results without computing full provenance. Our technique computes a sample of provenance based on the distribution of provenance wrt the query result that is estimated from the distribution of input data while considering the correlation among the data. The preliminary evaluation demonstrates that comparing to the naive approach our method efficiently computes a sample of (large size of) provenance with low errors. The initial paper is available [here](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3543873.3587556)

### Hybrid Explanations and Repairs



## Applications of Data Management and Data Provenance

### Provenance-based ML Explanations

### Exploring Provenance for Explainable Information Gain
In recent years, a large amount of data is collected from multiple sources and the demands for analyzing these data have increased enormously. Data sharing is a valuable part of this data-intensive and collaborative environment due to the synergies and added values created by multi-modal datasets generated from different sources. In this work, we introduce a technique that quantifies the degree of information gain (IG) that is obtained over data sharing. The IG is computed based on the distance between data that are integrated after the sharing. Our method captures both where (to compute the IG over values) and how provenance (to find matching records) and accurately computes the IG based on them. To provide better understanding on the data sharing, we develop a technique that computes meaningful summaries of data that highly contribute to IG. For that, we define four metrics that allow to provide such meaningful explanations. We conduct a set of experiments to demonstrate the performance and accuracy of our approach comparing to naive method using real-world datasets. The initial version of the paper is available [here](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3530800.3534534)
